Future water availability in Corsica - Analysis using ETCCDI indices.

Abstract

Understanding climatic variability, trends, and the forecast is critical for improved water resource management and planning (Bhatti, 2020). Because the water resources of the island of Corsica are very sensitive to climate change, a mix of trend analysis approaches was employed in the current work to analyze climatic variability and trends over the period 1981-2018 in two weather stations namely Ajaccio and Solenzara utilizing observed data in NetCDF format. The non-parametric Mann-Kendall, Sen’s slope estimator, Ordinary least squares method, and Differenced first-order autoregressive methods were used to assess the trends and variabilities in four temperature and four precipitation extreme indices. These indices were hot days (tx90p), warm speel duration index (WSDI), daily maximum temperature (TXx), daily minimum temperature (TNn), heavy precipitation days (R10>= 10mm), very heavy precipitation days (R20 >= 20mm), consecutive wet days (CWD) and, consecutive dry days (CDD). Out of these three temperature indices tx90p, TXx, and TNn showed increasing trends(CI = 95%) in both locations wherein the increase was more significant in Ajaccio. All the precipitation indices in both locations showed a weaker or no trend. On the basis of the obtained results, the study recommends that future research focus on the underlying physical and environmental sources of precipitation variability over the study region.
